# Scripts
This directory contains all the files required to generate incremental tests from the provided input file. Each script is briefly described below.

# run_cli.py
This [script](./run_cli.py) handels the options from the terminal and asks the user interactively for the inputs if the information was not yet provided by the terminal options.

# util.py
This [script](./util.py) contains usefull constants and functions for all programs. This enables the developer to access and change the behaviour fast and easily.

# generate_programs.py
This [script](generate_programs.py) generates a new `temp` directory. Depending on the passed options the different generator scripts are called to create mutated files (`p_42.c`). It then adds the `___goblint_check()` function along with corresponding comments by calling `add_check.py` and `add_check_annotations.py`.

# add_check.py
This [script](./add_check.py) calls Goblint to add the `___goblint_check()` function to the C files in the `temp_dir` (`p_42_check.c`).

# add_check_annotations.py
This [script](./add_check_annotations.py) adds the corresponding `//NOFAIL` or `//SUCCESS` comments to all the Goblint checks (`___goblint_check()`) in the `temp` directory (`p_42_check_nofail.c` / `p_42_check_success.c`).

# generate_tests.py
This [script](./generate_tests.py) generates the test files for each mutation. A test consists of a source `.c` file, a `.patch` file containing the changes from the mutation, and a `.json` file with the Goblint options. Normally, a patch is the difference between the original program provided by the user (`p_0_check_success.c`) and the mutated program (`p_42_check_nofail.c`). For precision tests, the mutated program is only annotated with success Goblint checks (`p_42_check_success.c`). For mutations generated by a git project, the patch is formed from the previous file to the current file.

# run_tests.py
This [script](./run_tests.py) copies the test directory into the incremental tester directory and executes the `update_suite.rb` script.

# generate_mutations.py
This [script](./generate_mutations.py) uses the custom clang-tidy checks to generate mutations on a given program. More information about the mutations can be found in this file: [Mutations](../clang-mutations/MUTATIONS.md)

# generate_ml.py
This [script](./generate_ml.py) uses gpt-3.5-turbo with the api from openai. It generates mutations on a program by asking it how a previous version of the code could have looked like before some typical code changes were done by developers.
<br><br>
You need to pass a `apikey.yaml` file with the following format:
```
organisation: (Found at https://platform.openai.com/account/org-settings)
api-key: (Found at https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)
```
You can specify `num_selected_lines` to tell the script how many consecutive lines should be sent together with the prompt. To many lines could lead to an error because of a too large request. To few lines may result in a bad mutation because of less context.
<br><br>
You can specify `interesting_lines` to guide the selection of the lines send with the request. The selection process works by selecting a random start line out of a set of lines. From the start line on the `num_selected_lines` are selected. When `interesting_lines` equals to `[]` all the lines (`[1, 2, 3, ..., MAX_LINE - NUM_SELECTED_LINES]`) are interesting lines. Alternatively you can pass specific lines (`[1, 42, 99]`). Note that when a line is larger then `(MAX_LINE - NUM_SELECTED_LINES)` it will be set to this value.

# generate_git.py (Experimental)
This [script](./generate_git.py) generates from a git repository per commit a cil file representing the whole project in a single c file. The differences between the commits are used as mutations. For passing a repository you need to specify a shell script containing all the needed information, and optionally you can give commands that should be executed before and after the default build commands (`cmake -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON` / `bear -- make`).
<br><br>
You can find the template for the shell script with the information in the file [generate_git_build_USER_INFO_TEMPLATE.sh](./generate_git_build_USER_INFO_TEMPLATE.sh).
<br><br>
The script [generate_git_build.sh](./generate_git_build.sh) interacts with these user shell scripts and can clone the repositories, build the repositories and provide the build path.
<br><br>
For not analyzing all the commits you can specify a start and end commit hash.
<br><br>